O.k. Main, main thing with any part of setting
up a tank is conservative. I'm not conservative.
But we want to be conservative in how we do
all these things. In transporting the fish
to your tank, think conservative. You don't
want to just get the fish, obviously, and
just dump them in there. A couple of reasons.
Main one being that the temperatures have
to be the same. So what we're going to do,
we're going to take that fish bag, float it
in your tank. And one quality about water
is that it changes temperature very slowly
so that works in our advantage in this hobby.
So we're going to take the fish bag, float
it, open it up, and do nothing other than
just let that bag, with the fish inside this
bag, float in your tank. The water that they?re
going to go into for about twenty minutes.
Now, obviously, if you have a lot of, if you
have a much larger amount of water, you're
going to maybe make that forty-five minutes
because that's just more water. But for most
purposes, fifteen, twenty minutes. You're
going to want to float that bag right there.
What will happen in that fifteen, twenty minutes
is that this temperature inside the bag will
get the same temperature as the water it's
going into. Now after about fifteen, twenty
minutes it's a good idea to take some of your
water that it's going into and just put it
in. I might be better to have a cup, but if
you're going to use your hand like I'm doing
here, just make sure your hands are clean,
obviously. So that allows the fish to get
used to the water that they're actually going
to be going into. Again, we're just doing
the conservative thing here and kind of breaking
the transition down into little pieces here.
So after this has been floating about a half
hour, very important point, get a little net.
Don't just dump the water into the tank. This
is especially crucial if your just starting
out. Because while those fish where in that
bag, ammonia is building up, some of their
slime was coming off. So that's probably not
a good idea to just dump the water in. So
what we usually recommend is just getting
your net out and, again, keep conservative.
Just net them in there and as quickly as possible
just right into the water. Just like that.
It's o.k. if you get two or three, two fishes
in. That's fine, of course. And there we got
some happy fishes in there, and they're going
to quickly acclimate to that environment there
that you've set up. So, there we go, happy
fishes.